Thank you very much everyone. Again, we continue to know what we are going through and the
teachings
of the Bodhisattvamuni and the Bariguluri is the highlight by the Shabji Dinnurukhi will follow me
with those teachings. And so again in that frame we are going again three nobles.
In the beginning noble as foundations, middle noble as principal, and a concluding or third noble
is a concluding pinem. Those are three nobles. And so those three we're going again in order to
follow and reflect the teaching as in the teaching said and I mentioned so many times and we again
all heard so many times and reactivated our motivation. A beautiful motivation of the duo
and appreciations and vastness motivation of the bodhisattvas. Beautiful motivation of the
Vedayana teachings. Five perfect, all five perfect, all three Vedas, all three Kayas,
according your understanding and realization. Bring up those realizations and with those beautiful
intention and beautiful understanding realization then we reflect the teachings. So now first is
again we're going through the first novels. First novel is the motivation and which is I
highlighted
joy and appreciation and bodhicitta and then as well as the Vedayana motivation of the
joy in appreciation, bodhicitta and the devotions. Those are I highlighted but beside that again
another very important which is poor renunciation thoughts. We went through those last time or
during this our retreat. I went through now again you notice poor renunciation thoughts.
Poor renunciation thoughts again if I highlight that precious human body, precious life,
impermanence, cause and effects is inevitable because it will bring the result or the fruit
inevitable. If cause and the contraction there, there is inevitably a result will come.
That's it. That is the logic. That is where the system of this mundane world going.
Everything is cause and effect and cause and effect are totally connected exactly as it is.
Cause if the cause is something different, effect or the result is something that will never happen
.
Cause and condition whatever that is it will bring exactly a result, result and cause and
also that cause and condition will not going to transfer something different or something
change that. That is same the external this phenomena existing that is the way
mentally whatever it is also the same thing. So therefore be smart and be thoughtful and
become mindfulness of the cause and effect and is that is what means cause and effort we should
we should follow that and then samsara has difficulty in troubles and challenges. Those
are the four points with the day with those reflecting those thoughts really joy and
appreciation and bodhicitta. So those and now I'm going to go again with the bodhicitta.
Bodhicitta I can explain those of us divisions different divisions but summarizing bodhicitta
into two we'll encounter the practices two and which is wishing bodhicitta and actualizing
bodhicitta. So that is two bodhicittas. First is wishing bodhicitta and the wishing bodhicitta is
how we activate the wishing bodhicitta that is through the poor boundless practices.
We're going to activate it by the poor boundlesses wishing bodhicitta and that poor boundless of
course
we went through yesterday and we all know it's not just I went yesterday and then you
on that time only knew that's not I'm talking we knew that we received the teaching we went through
all those so many times so many great masters one after another and that is teaching of
entirely buddhas mayana teaching this is really what it is and so therefore again we went and
again I'm going to list those four boundlesses. Boundless love, boundless compassion and boundless
joy or the rejoice and boundless equanimities that is those are known as poor boundless again I
mentioned yesterday the why is called boundless boundless because the subject level is boundless
object level is boundless benefit or result is boundless therefore it is known as boundless
what that means subject level means our mind has no boundaries no borders our mind is boundless
it's infinite so this love and kind is coming from our mind or this poor boundless are coming
from our mind it's not for coming from outside we have to collect together and put that and then
try to get send that out no it's all is from our mind that according to buddha teaching
mind is infinite mind has no deep the mind has no kind of borders it's deepest ever we can imagine
it is the vastness ever we can imagine it's our mind your mind and my mind that's our mind
mind is more vast than the sky mind is more deeper than the deepest oceans as I said there's no
deep
deeper that you can make that is the mind this mind is filled with the richness of those qualities
beautiful qualities those enlightenment energies are filled with that effort filled with that
vastness we're revealing that radio so therefore the subject way is coming from the mind
is boundless for that reason it's called boundless now this time by the teaching of the greatest
teacher by brother hetmani or the great masters we are opening that boundaries without any border
to the to all objects to the object of talking about where we're going to project that that
boundless loving kindness normally what we do that love love is for our relatives our close ones
our loved ones that's what we call loved ones our loved ones when we say that our loved ones
there is someone that we don't know that indirectly apply that meaning to I have to my loved ones
but this time we're not going to make that border we're not going to make that distraction because
by our ego clings clings we're going to break that boundary wall that we created
from the big and less time cut that iron wall between us and the others we're going to break
that we're going to illuminate that love and kindness powers as billion the sunlight or billion
sunlight of trillions of suns radiating to the old living beings beings to all the living beings
therefore it is boundless an object of sentient beings again number of the sentient beings limited
limitless as I said yesterday again I don't I mean it's not something I'm sorry that I'm saying
this
I said that because you don't know that we all know that they call the ticket there is no numbers
of
sentient beings but our loving kindness for the boundless this poor boundless going to all those
living beings why because they all struggle they all struggle with their emotions as soon as there
is emotions there is karma that caused but the karma and emotion caused with the result consecrates
challenge in a struggle for that reason they all need help they all need support including myself
and ourself they all need so therefore it's spreading out of the power of the boundless
poor boundless to all the beings therefore object level is boundless the result or the benefit of
that according to the teaching it is boundless it's not just the benefit of the one person
two individuals three individuals or hundred four hundred we're talking numerous beings
reaching out to that to all the beings truly we are making the meaning of our lives we are making
the impressions we have new dimension understanding by the kindness completion of the buddha we're
raising up something great wisdom that never had before in our lifetimes really completely thinking
of all beings reading that energy from the pure heart there is nothing any negativities
it's truly pure it's pure from the beginning pure in the middle and pure all the way
to all the living beings how beautiful it is how divine really i'm not just a joke can't say that
that is divine that is holy that is the most holiest ones that is truly powerful
and it's good heart powerful good heart therefore result according to the teaching
is the not just there's no boundaries what can't result the merit in the teaching is too merit
the accumulation merit verse the merits all are completely coming
and with that happen what it does for us it's purifying the obscurations
negative it is and calm us negative emotions or in the teaching said the knowledge obscurations
and emotion obscuring to obscuring we knocking down we are really trembling them they never did
that before in our lifetimes now we're shaking up their roots their identities the same time
is the benefiting to the others the ripple effect well stay until we reach enlightenment
or reach ripple effort of the benefit of that that well see that merit until we reach enlightenment
until all the living beings are getting enlightened it's an effect it is a ripple effect it is like
waves of the energies are started it started from the boneless and projected the boneless
it is going to stay for a long time long time after they reach enlightenment so therefore
this poor boneless is so powerful again in the teaching said why as i said the other day did
the vision both did that when we put that in the practices
that is the poor boneless poor boneless really those tungi practices that is known as practices
of the vision both each other or in other words if i use terminology exercising of the
wishing both each others now i talk really about of course we hope you all know though that but
again i thought i reminded this this because it's about that the teachings always in the teaching
mentioned why we do love to all the sentient beings why we feel the compassion for all the
sentient beings why feel the rejoice or joy when they have good experience the good things
why we should be equanimated to all the sentient beings the first we talk about the loving kindness
and then compassion because the reason why we do this one of the principle reasons according to
Buddhism that you know that all living beings be our dear parents all living beings
every living beings being our dear parents or dear friends once upon a time one way the other
even many times many times even only the sentient beings can become our best parent
so many lifetimes one after another all best friends so if they are coordinated in Buddhism
that all the parents particularly they be our mothers mothers and mothers according generally
ever readily parents are very kind to all of us that is what in the Buddhist teaching
in my energy always parents are very kind always most of the time of course parents are not perfect
nor we are perfect we are all the sentient beings but they are doing their best they did their best
to us throughout the time for example this lifetime if we think of our this lifetime of parents
parents we are here simply to tell we are here because of our parents we are in doubt this time
in a zoom announce to a window retreats a parent with all the parent we're not going to do this
this we know what we were learning through whatever you receive the teachings from great masters
that not going to happen and parents are not there therefore we have to be thankful
we have great teachers of that that and then in Buddhism again i know i'm a general general i
know you know with these modern times parents are kind of little bit issues all these many people
kind of talk that very issue of the parents but every really think carefully stay in mind the more
kind of in the economy they stay there take carefulness we call the percentages percentage
that's what we do always percentage hundred percent of thing kind of the parents i'm sure
it is eighty percent seventy percent maybe twenty percent thirty percent they didn't do well
but that true seventy percent that is i mean in what in the normal people talk that
seventy percent is a landslide vector is it's true that's what we talk everyone talks that
land slides so that is the biggest at the portion of the percentage how much they help
all other could be they 80 percent they did support so 20 percent maybe mistakes some mistakes
but we think ourselves too how we do we are perfect how much mistakes we did
in our lives until now mostly we all grown-ups were educated went college and the university
degrees and all these things and how much mistakes that we did our self so parent
also is a sentient beings they're struggling with the emotions so therefore kind of reflecting
thought for more carefully and then we have to be really more kind of grateful that in a normal
time again have i said when we go to the restaurants when we buy the coffees or the cheese
something
something you pay the money you get the money but they give you ask coffee and we say thank you
thank you and they give maybe coffee with when you're taking out coffee with with nothing papers
they will give or i want extra nothing nothing paper nothing paper and they get again nothing
what i i'm good i'm very greatly appreciate it thank you so much again you say we say one extra
thank you giving coffee that you paid money and just asking them what extra nothing we said extra
kind of like strongly or i greatly appreciated that that and the parents are not just that
truly they help us so much in the buddhist and what's at least the poor principles that we can
highlight what bad did to us first and those are first is they give us this body it's the first
kindness of the provider of this body second in the teaching said they give us life
l a s l i f i believe they give us life second first they give our body
second they give us life third they provided all necessities
necessities fourth they show us the world this world w o r l d world they show us the four great
kindness they really did and that's what we are here fourth they give us life this fresh life
is provided by our parents particularly mother carried us in her womb for nine months or maybe
even ten months or whatever the long period is getting heavy and heavy and heavy but never she's
bored and tired and complaining she's so always excited happy joy and my baby is coming that she's
just smiling thinking of that and all that is true that she's going with and all the necessity
any you might go into the expert doctors and this and that ask her how to do this and that
and that's what mother is doing and father is true kind of almost busy we talk at all our baby is
coming all these things so they completely nourish him prepared the area there and then our comic
polls we came out but when we came out we are completely in in couple in couples we can't do
anything and everything is completely dependent on our balance we are in the teaching said we are
not
dead because we are crying we're not of total life because we don't can't function anything
that completely in cover to person and only indication of our pain and feeling or not is
crimes that is our communication lens moment she get we came out of the wombs the parents
and mother picked up immediately and the glass clean so beautiful white and then touching to her
face her belly and the most subtle part of the hip her bodies and father too truly so excited soft
but everything every parents that time dropped we won't be like if they throw away that we want to
lie true or not so therefore their kindness of giving us life they give us lives so therefore
provided body and provided they give us this life precious lives then they provided all necessities
and every time even before we born those couple of parents are buying the toys tools and those
baby uh those carrots one up and a blanket and all those organized this and all these beautiful
things when we have a little bit grown up or something then they buy all those toys action
figures one after another and when we are survival three or six years ago i mean this rich country
then they had a completely kind of comfort room for their toys toys how much they really
lost how much they did kindness all that they spent everything else and not just that at
only same time now they're showing the world to us helping us and do this do that don't do that
where it is good at this and even many times they just can't reach everything they provided
and even they sure told us how to walk how to speak how to go bubbles on hippies those are all
provided because of their love their kindness and compassion for those reasons called in buddha
teaching parents so kind these are not just only one parent every parent most of them do
even the animal world when we look to the birds how much those birds are busy trying to feed
preparing for their nastas and feed when the baby bone prepare feed there's just one up another and
you look to everyone i mean you know this modern days we can know so easy so therefore
it's called all the parents are so kind and now therefore now i receive the teaching
and i understand of the of the meaning of the value and importance of loving kindness and
compassion and our parents those kind of parents struggle with the emotions struggle with the
karmas and their consequences so therefore we need compassion we need the compassion we need
love and kindness we need the joys and joys and we need like equanimity so that's what
really in the teaching says that's what because all the parents are being so kind and so nice
now we have to return back there great kindness repeat that and therefore then they belong in the
body and support it to all that way everywhere every can do that is the part of the body cells
and this so therefore so this this this body is so important and loving kindness in all that's
so so important and again as i say the loving kindness that this loving kindness or the body
together is simple way to explain it is it's good heart have the good heart good intention and that
is again it's kind of motivation is it is then loving kindness the compassion rejoice and joy
and equanimity so that is the one that is the vision body that is now i talk with some few stories
of this power of the loving kindness and again of all these stories many of you know already this
but i'm going to talk three stories now the the respect and appreciation and good thought
thought of the good thought and good heart heart to others has big powers in the teaching
set because we we love to each other when you do help and support to each other and it has really
big power it will remove and glorify the obscurations and obstacles this is in the
teaching said that once upon a time i mean is also i i think it a bit is happening a bit
and it made it many times those big viewers don't have bridges in ancient times
ancient and they what they use they crossing by the horse or they by their their own uh crossing
by the feet feet and and then also there is the fundamental the method they're going through the
boat b-o-a-t i think boat so they're going boats but intubate there is a boat called the leather
boat leather boat and the l-e-a-t-h-e-l leather i believe leather and then boat is b-o-a-t
boat leather boat so leather boat is quite popular it's a young skin young skin is the matter of
that
and it is also very durable it's very light light you can carry and you can save that
so they say that the boat leather called it they say the corner so leather boat boat so now this
sailor has six passengers and so and then including himself is seven it makes seven
so now they're crossing the river quite big rivers but here they are they this sailor
didn't kind of thought that at the very beginning but you know when they reach in the middle of
that
river he's told to everyone and there is i think
five monks or maybe it's eight passengers uh six monks one messenger and himself
so maybe the seller himself so add passengers add passengers so now when they got them in the
middle
of the road middle of the river the seller said oh oh said to them said boat is too heavy i think
one of you have to jump out those who know the swimming have to jump out and otherwise i would
jump out out any one one person you come up and hold this what's called row to row the boat boat
and so now we need the seller say that to to them and it turned out no one knows how to swim
and no one also know how to row row the boat boat so so then he said then we all will think
if nobody jump we all will think that so this messenger thought oh everyone sings
that all will die die so now if i'm going to jump and if i died i will save these seven people
i'm going to jump he thought he's not really practicing according to the story he's not
necessarily practicing but he's a good heart a gentleman appreciating your love to the others
carrying thoughts so suddenly he jumped at the river even though he don't know the swimming
he jumped because of the power of in the teaching said the power of his good heart and good
intention even he don't know the swimming he able to come out of the river to the other shores
and all others said and this rainbow light came came that's the really teaching said the power
of compassion power of the caring thought for the others with good hearts and there is another
story that also in the teaching said ancient time true mother and the daughters are close to the
rivers they're not there's no break there's no more both are crossing hold hands target the whole
ending helping hands are targeted they cross the rivers and the water currents is really strong
can it strong the mother thought water this looks like this water is going to carry
path but i wish i i wish my daughter can go through this and then to other show even i
carried with river i don't care but i want my daughter to be like why she was really thinking
that so much my mother's and don't tell the same things i i wish my mother can go through this
through this river even i carried i don't care i carried this river but i want mother herself
to go other show really thinking of that because that's strong genuine affection and loving kind
talk to each other other they both are dark in the teaching said the moment they died they
told the birth in the duchita heavens duchita heavens heavens so therefore the power of the
loving kindness to each other and that brought them to the higher realm immediately the result
higher than rebirths so this is the one that really the known as bodhicaka good heart power
of the good house now i'm going to talk that when we put this poor boneless practices into more
kind of powerful powerful practices what in the teaching said trying to develop the poor
intentions poor thoughts all poor brains maybe another poor brains first is
drift loving genuine this compassion or slowing kindness for all the living beings and make all
such as in this following first pray may all living beings have happiness and cause of happiness
really genuinely thinking from the heart and pray sing that word and pray that may all living
beings have that happiness and the cause of happiness and what is the cause of happiness
i said that yesterday too cause of happiness the other day we mentioned ten virtues ten virtues
ten virtues it starts from the identity from that from ten virtues come from the loving kind as a
compassion and the wisdom because of from that heart and enough reflecting the virtues ten virtues
three by the body poor by the speech and three by mind ten virtues ten virtues is a cause
that good intention of loving kind is a comparison of wisdom and ten virtues action that is cause
of the happiness so that one is a cause or there is a result and reaching that sincerity that
may all living beings have happiness and cause of happiness that is post intention second
intentions may all living beings immediately right now they have the happiness and cause of
happiness kind of reactivating that first prayer reactivated that intention kind of more intensify
may all living beings have the happiness the cause of happiness right now right this moment
sincerely wishing and praying that that is called second intentions when we activated
this vision body third intention is may i have the capabilities to create it to create it the
cause of happiness and happiness for all living beings may i have that that is known as intention
with commitments beautiful intention with commitment in the aspirations practice what is
and the fourth one may all the buddhas the body self enlighten me have blessed me that i have that
capabilities in their presence you are or we are saying that so those are known as poor intentions
that activated more wishing mode i use another example of the the loving kindness
but that you can do same thing with the computations may all living beings have
happiness sorry a plea from the sufferance and cause of sufferance cause of sufferance
i said already yesterday what are the other days but it is the anger attachment jealous
arrogance those are the front runners of the cause of suffering behind is ego-clinging
ignorance they are standing behind and actively sending those negative emotions then it created
the word action negative karma negative karmas are known as ten known virtues
and we went those last time and again you know that that is negative karma that is cause of
sufferance these two are negative negative karma negative emotions are cause of suffering truth
that cause bring the result as suffering truth so again do same prayer of that intention poor
intention poor prayers with that again it's calm with a relaxed manner peaceful manner calm
peaceful openness relaxing hurry gentle man pray there and the same thing with the joy or the joys
and then same thing with the equanimics those are known as the protein the poor boneless more
in the active status which is practice of the wishing both each other then when we have good
foundation good of this poor boneless practice certainly in our heart then again how we activate
the wishing both each other as i said the other day is that we all are ego that attitude come
that is called tungni practice first we all ego second we are tungni practices third others are
more dear than me or myself those are known as again once we have the good strong foundations
of the poor boneless that's how they do the great practice but also if you like to do before that
during the poor boneless practice is excellent it's not something that you can do that those
are good practices we all equal equal means similar as the equanimities we all equal many
of us we all equal what the great master part will you say that equal means equal men practices
for example now we in the cold weather cold weather in the snow storms snow storms and
there is not much to really in it here but one individual has a nice blanket a big nice blanket
not just the only way that individual is but equally kind of wear that blanket to everyone
under that blanket that is equal you're equally thinking everyone and you are also included
ourselves also included that is example that in many times also we were good to have good
friend what they said oh we will be good friend whether we are happy or whether we are troubles
we will be good friend we're not going to change our friendships we can't and what in the teaching
said that in the teaching said what in what the great master problem when you say it f f f f we are
that
what's called his name kim roberts the bird kim roberts magpie
every magpie we will be equally magpie with the stripe of white you understand
magpie they have i think white stripe stripe right white white and black and white so if we are
we have your magpie we are all talking with magpie we have the same equal we are we are
croc we were all the same with black as black crocs this is the example of the eco
eco so we are all equal and then equal kind of like similar things i said yesterday and i mean
you can read in a book and the teaching and other great masters because we're all eco i mean every
level is really equal there's nothing really different difference at all so therefore kind
of bring that realization and a very good things to everyone as i want that is so that is my job
for today again thank you very much everyone and the participating thank you thank you everyone
thank you and then of course i continue to talk tomorrow i will show this little bit maybe this
too many practices and then others are more important than ourself and then after that or
tomorrow or after that then i will show a little bit about that how we keep keep up the actualizing
both each other how we keep up actualizing both each other and those are our talk and so again
thank you so much everyone and for participating and again how we do that again uh very short
meditation and then we do that kind of diffusion of the old